README.md, before:

#Thesis Project Archive
Interactive Telecommunications Program - NYU  
Spring 2012  

Enhanced Visualization Therapy 
	- aka: Intelligent Healing Spaces or Interactive Healing Spaces 

jason stephens


www.intelligenthealingspaces.com

______

##Press:  
[CNET] (http://news.cnet.com/8301-27083_3-20070346-247/kinect-hack-allows-for-intelligent-healing-massage/)  
[Gizmodo] (http://gizmodo.com/5910630/i-let-a-weird-man-rub-me-for-10-minutes-in-the-name-of-journalism) 
[PCWorld] (http://www.techhive.com/article/227759/kinect_hack_helps_therapists_track_their_session_progress.html)
[engadget] (http://www.engadget.com/2011/05/14/kinect-hack-enables-psychedelic-acupressure-far-out-graphics-v/)
[MedGadget:  Journal of Emerging Medical Technologies] (http://www.medgadget.com/2011/06/kinect-helps-power-a-futuristic-massage-table.html)
[KinectHacks] (http://www.kinecthacks.com/massage-therapy-using-the-kinect/)

Definition:
Intelligent Healing Spaces are mixed-reality environments which augment, and assist with, traditional massage modalities.

Intelligent Healing Spaces integrate therapeutic bodywork (deep tissue, sports massage, Swedish, Tui-Na, acupressure) with interactive technology (computer vision, augmented reality, volumetric sensors, video projections, video goggles). Using a depth-sensing camera, the system translates body shapes, positions, movements, and gestures into visualizations. During a massage session, these visuals are projected into both real space and augmented reality on and around the massage table. Two sets of video goggles provide the client and the therapist with a real-time out-of-body perspective of this mixed-reality environment.

REASON:
In the massage community, ancient modalities are often respected the most. But I believe that healers of every generation are presented with new ideas that can extend or supplement established methods. Interactive technology and augmented reality represent just a fraction of the novelty now available to alternative medicine practitioners. I chose these specific technologies because they offered themselves as ideal extensions to my own evolving practice in the healing arts.

Software Description (4 apps):

1. Massage Table Matrix
Basically a Conway Game of Life existing on the massage table.  Goal:  propagating waves and interference patterns affected by client’s body on the table

2. Virtual Pressure Objects
2-D objects projected directly onto the client

3. Depth Informed Flow Field
A particle system whose behavior is informed by depth and movement on and around the massage table

4. Proprioception Enhancement (PET)
This app combines the scene’s RGB information with its point cloud information.  The Processing version proved to be too slow.  An OpenFrameworks version

Commit message:

updated README.  included videos and documentation

README.md, after:

#Thesis Project Archive  
Interactive Telecommunications Program - NYU  
Spring 2012  

Enhanced Visualization Therapy  
	- aka: Intelligent Healing Spaces or Interactive Healing Spaces  

jason stephens  

Project Website:   
[Interactive Healing Spaces] (www.interactivehealingspaces.com)  

Project Documentation:  
[NYU Thesis] (http://itp.nyu.edu/~js5346/jayblog/ITP/nyu-thesis/)  

Project Videos:
[Vimeo] (https://vimeo.com/album/2004737)  
[youTube] (http://www.youtube.com/user/jaycody9)

##Press:    
[CNET] (http://news.cnet.com/8301-27083_3-20070346-247/kinect-hack-allows-for-intelligent-healing-massage/)    
[Gizmodo] (http://gizmodo.com/5910630/i-let-a-weird-man-rub-me-for-10-minutes-in-the-name-of-journalism)  
[PCWorld] (http://www.techhive.com/article/227759/kinect_hack_helps_therapists_track_their_session_progress.html)  
[engadget] (http://www.engadget.com/2011/05/14/kinect-hack-enables-psychedelic-acupressure-far-out-graphics-v/)  
[MedGadget:  Journal of Emerging Medical Technologies] (http://www.medgadget.com/2011/06/kinect-helps-power-a-futuristic-massage-table.html)  
[KinectHacks] (http://www.kinecthacks.com/massage-therapy-using-the-kinect/)  

________


Definition:
Interactive Healing Spaces are mixed-reality environments which augment, and assist with, traditional massage modalities.

Interactive Healing Spaces integrate therapeutic bodywork (deep tissue, sports massage, Swedish, Tui-Na, acupressure) with interactive technology (computer vision, augmented reality, volumetric sensors, video projections, video goggles). Using a depth-sensing camera, the system translates body shapes, positions, movements, and gestures into visualizations. During a massage session, these visuals are projected into both real space and augmented reality on and around the massage table. Two sets of video goggles provide the client and the therapist with a real-time out-of-body perspective of this mixed-reality environment.

REASON:
In the massage community, ancient modalities are often respected the most. But I believe that healers of every generation are presented with new ideas that can extend or supplement established methods. Interactive technology and augmented reality represent just a fraction of the novelty now available to alternative medicine practitioners. I chose these specific technologies because they offered themselves as ideal extensions to my own evolving practice in the healing arts.

Software Description:

1. Massage Table Matrix
Basically a Conway Game of Life existing on the massage table.  Goal:  propagating waves and interference patterns affected by client’s body on the table

2. Virtual Pressure Objects
2-D objects projected directly onto the client

3. Depth Informed Flow Field
A particle system whose behavior is informed by depth and movement on and around the massage table

4. Proprioception Enhancement (PET)
This app combines the scene’s RGB information with its point cloud information.  The Processing version proved to be too slow.  An OpenFrameworks version
